Okay, since I want to learn how to "Rice" a Linux. I made this guide for myself 
on how to "Rice" my linux installation. 

For this guide, we will use the base install terminal emulator and bash. Since I
am on Mint 20.1 with Xfce as my DE,  the base terminal is xfec4-terminal and the 
Bash shell. There are alternative terminal emulators and shells, but I will go 
with the base for this guide for the sake of simplicity. And I am assuming the 
readers of this guide are as well, and on popular OOTB Distros like Mint, 
Manjaro, Ubuntu, and what have you and on different DE spins that comes with 
their own terminal emulators(KDE being Konsole, Gnome being Gnome-terminal and 
etc) and bash shell as default shell.

Although this is guide is for new Ricers, I am assuming you have basic knowledge
on shell commands and how to use the terminal and how to install binaries with 
the package manager(apt, dnf, pacman and etc) and downloading source online
as in with git, wget and curl that comes with your distro. 
That's the bare minimum prerequisite.

There are some several installations before we begin ricing.

First come are the window managers. My preference is awesome and openbox for 
starters, we will begin with them. 

As to why I picked them, OpenBox is very mature and documented Stacking Window 
Manager while Awesome is a Dynamic Window Manager with a beginner friendly 
setup. As to why I didn't pick i3 and bspwm, they require more configurations, 
and for those who likes gaps, you have to get another i3, called i3-gaps which 
are not commonly available in package managers.

We will begin with openbox, assuming we have the gtk2.0+ dependancies installed
in our system, if not, our package manager will do it for ourselves.


So we need to install four programs
    >   openbox -OpenBox is your window manager.
    >   obconf  -Obconf will configure openbox's visuals
    >   menumaker -Menumaker will configure your context menu i.e the right 
        click menu(Openbox calls them pipemenu, basically its native application
        launcher)
        *You can download this here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/menumaker/

After you got the above, install these: 
    >   rofi  -Rofi is an application launcher, basically type in the program 
        to launch it; there are several alternatives, but this one is better 
        for beginners.
    >   lxappearance -This will help select the gtk theme borders of your 
        graphical programs. There is oomox, but this one is far easier.
        There is also 'lxappearance-obconf', the latter is just particular
        to openbox and you it if you want lxappearance to have full control.
    >   compton/picom - This is a compositor able to be used on window managers 
        rather than DE's like compiz, it will give your more graphical effects 
        like dropshadow and transperancy
    >   nitrogen - This is a wallpaper selector, there is Feh as an alternative, 
        but requires more scripting
    

Obviously, no Rice is complete without a cli software: a filemanager, a music 
player, a panel or taskbars, a notification popup. And other oddities, like
automatic color theme selector for the terminal.

We will get into them more later. But first let's do the base installations. 

While installing - it will suggest several packages, depending on your package
manager. Mine automatically installed obconf along with openbox.

Now, that it is install. It's a good idea to logout and login a new session
with openbox.

Now, that you are in openbox, you will see a blank screen with just the mouse.
Wait a minute, if you right click you will get a context menu. 
By default it should have a decent menu if you installed it through a package 
rather than from source, but we are going to make it look better.

First, if we head to ~/.config/openbox and you find only one or two files, you 
have to create a couple of more. Or copy them from /etc/xdg/openbox to that 
home folder if you want something tailored to yourself if you are sharing
the pc, otherwise, those configs in the xdg are global. There should be 4 files:
autostart.sh, environment.sh, menu.xml and rc.xml

If you open autostart, you might see gnome, kde or xfce daemons.
These will make those themes work with openbox.

Menu.xml will have your right click menu.You can edit this manually if you want 
so or let  menumaker generates one. You can still edit the generated one too.


Now, let's add menumaker. If you download, untar it with the 'tar -txvf' command
and run './configure && make && make install' in the folder as sudo, and it will
install so aslong as you have python2 or python3 in your system.

After it has installed run this command. (Tip: you can use mmaker without 
installing it too).

'mmaker -t xterm -f OpenBox3'

Remember, if you are using something else, like Fluxbox or IceWM for example,
you can always reference the wiki.archlinux.org for those particular WMs. 

Infact, I use the archlinux's wikia in a lot for my other things. I really
think it is a very good resource.

Once done. Reset your Openbox, now right click and you will see a nicer menu.
You can also go ahead and delete the menumaker folder and archive, if you want
so. Remember though, if you install a new program and you want it to appear.
You have to reapply a

You will notice some settings from let's say, Cinnamon or KDE won't carry 
over, like the icon theme if you open your file manager and what have you.
There is a work around with OpenBox, but I prefer to use the vanilla OB.

You can install rofi now, if you haven't yet.

You can go ahead and open Openbox configuration. You can change the theme
and what appears on the borders like if you want a close button or a rollup 
button instead(reason why it is called stacking window manager, you can create
a bunch of application on top of each other). Change the fonts here to a more 
aesthetic one(more that later) and various other settings you can play with.
Remember rc.xml? This is where it is stored.

If you installed lxappearance, you can use those sweet gtk and icon themes
that comes on the base install of your distro. However, even after using
clicking on them, it seems to only update after exiting to a logout screen
and coming in for me. 

Now let's add some keybindings. Preferrably people use the Windows key as the
Superkey, and that's what I am going to use as well. So let's launch up our
text editor and rc.xml. (Tip: if you don't want to do it manually, you can 
install 'obkey').

Head to the section '<!-- Keybindings for running applications -->' section

Just a reminder that 'C' stands for Control, 'S' for shift, 'A' for alt and 'W' 
for Windows key i.e the default Superkey.

Let's do one for rofi.

<keybind key="W-p">
    <action name="Execute">
        <command>rofi -show run</command>
    </action>
</keybind>

Restart OB and it will be enabled. You can do this for several otherbindings
Like W-w for a web browser W-backspace for a terminal. 


    








 




